Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today is Thursday, December
the 18th. It's actually Wednesday,
December the 17th for most of us that
listen to the Moneyball morning report
for the Benzinga Pro platform. But as
many of you know, I am in Tokyo. And so
we begin taking a look at the E- Mini
S&P 500. We have rolled to the March
contract. Notice at the time of the
roll, we were sitting at around 6880.
The roll happened a few days ago. So
6880 68.90 was about where we were but
the December contract
was at about 6828
and so there was a gap up into the next
roll and this happens
when we roll from one contract to
another and there's a gap. But what what
has happened is in yesterday's trading
day, we absolutely filled that gap. We
came into this 68
20-ish area and we continued to fade.
We're now sitting at value area low that
6778 in the E- Mini S&P contract. That's
going to give us a range that should in
quotations give us a bounce. And we are
seeing that a little bit in the
pre-market. Let's go to the 30-inut
chart. We realize now that the gap has
filled. We've got a bottoming formation
showing up in oil, in natural gas, in a
number of different places. We have
platinum at a peak. Um, all kinds of
things that feel like we could be
getting ourselves ready for a little bit
of a bounce. We have one more day until
we have uh quad witching or call it
triple witching still.
And so what do we want to stare down in
the overnight? Well, first things first,
let's take a look at where the traders
are collecting inventory. They're
collecting inventory from 6773
to 6796. Easily you can trade that range
for yourself. Notice momentum is moving
up
but our VWAP is flat and we are still in
negative trend. That doesn't mean to say
that the bounce is going to be a sell
zone definitively,
but we could easily have a rotation that
turns us back to the upside and works
through the gap and back into the 68.880
80 area where this contract began in its
state that it's in right now. Okay. So,
where might we take a look at that?
Well, do you see these wicks right here?
These wicks to the left of us are going
to give us our breakaway zones. So, if
we get above 6797,
we're going to have bullish motion that
very likely pushes us into 6812. That
being said, we're going to find sellers
there at the first pass. They're not
going to run right through it. The
pullback that holds 6,800 is going to be
the area that we want to look at. A lot
of the option traders have been staring
down this 6,800 number and saying,
"Listen, if we lose that 68, we have to
get up over it quickly or we're going to
see a really big drop." And that next
drop first pass 6750 and then 6700 where
the big put wall is. The call wall still
up at 7,000. Even after this complete
fade, these bigger levels have not
changed. And so what this is telling us
is that the broad market in general is
comfortable with this sideways action.
And so we should be also not getting
freaked out about, hey, we're going to
sell off dramatically or XYZ. We really
are caught in a big fat range. So
staring that down, we can see when we
look at our typical volume by time of
day, once we roll over to the brand new
contract, because this only goes 7 days
into the past, all of these
yellow bars are outsized relative to the
prior 7 days. And so this is going to
start looking a little normal later on
where they'll have some gray bars and
some uh gold bars, but we can't really
look at that right now because we are in
the new contract for the first space.
Where is it that we must think to
ourselves, hang on, if I lose this zone,
I can potentially add to my short. Well,
the first thing would be how well do we
reject 6,800? If we can reject that and
it starts slipping below it, you know,
hey, if I just use two or three points
of risk, I can get a short 25 points
wide and then potentially even more into
the 6750. That's where gamma line one is
sitting right now. Okay. And so that
would be the next target. But I do
suspect that we hold the floor here and
into the last two days of the week we
see a bullish bounce. Just a hunch of
course. Let's look at the flows, the
gamma lines. We know the put wall again,
big put wall 6,700. The zero DTE put
wall is also there and the zero DTE call
wall also at 7,000. So everybody is in
wide agreement into triple witching on
this Friday. All right, that's important
for us to realize. Let's take a look at
the NQ
NQ's looked like a bit of a train wreck.
However, let's take a peek at it first.
4hour formation. We can see we've got
downward flows. This line here at 24,950
is value area low. So, we do expect
traders to try to bounce off of this
zone. And wouldn't you know it, that's
exactly what they're doing in the
overnight. Very solid bounce pattern.
So, are they lifting higher right now?
Well, let's take a look at the inventory
box. Where where have they been
accumulating? This one is actually
already in breakout.
If I were to estimate the low edge,
24,890,
the high edge 25,000. It's broken above
that. So, what we want to see is a
pullback that holds ding ding ding the
VWAP. Right. Exactly. You want it to
hold the VWAP. If it holds the VWAP, it
tells us that buyers are taking the
foothold. The first place they want to
head to is value area low. That also
happens to be the top of the wicks. Look
at momentum. Momentum is moving. So, the
pullbacks are going to be areas that we
can potentially take longs. Now, could
it be that we have a little bit of a
jolt in the overnight pulling back?
Maybe we could, but that's still a dip
buying event. Where does the line in the
sand mark from being bullish above to
being bearish below? My suspicion is
that that number is 24,890.
If we lose that, we want to see a look
below and go, right? So, it would
bounce, fade down, bounce, and then lose
that level again. That's what we're
staring down. My suspicion is that we
have um a look above and go, right? So,
it will come back, retest the zone, and
move to the next space. Look at how the
traders are upside down in the options
positioning here in the NQ. The big put
wall is down here at 24,000.
The big call wall is up here at 27,000.
Those not moving pretty wide. However,
the put for the zero DTE 25,150.
You know, we need to be above that for
the put sellers to win. The call zero
DTE are down here at 24,400.
we know that we have to be below that in
order for the call sellers to win. So
right now it's either one or the other
that is going to be winning in this
space. And so
the option chains are they're sitting on
the wrong side. So we could see a lot of
volatility as they move back into the
spaces that they're supposed to. It's
extremely rare that a call wall would be
so far below a put wall. It means that
they've positioned
in a way that is not going to be
conducive. And so they're probably going
to try to make some really big moves in
the market to get it in one place or
another. So either the put can win or
the call can win, but right now nobody's
winning. Both of these guys are losing
because they're in between this space.
Very rare. That's very rare. So, they're
going to move these options around
tomorrow. I feel certain that that is
going to shift. All right. So, we have
the zone. We know that below 24,890
we've got more bearish action. The gamma
level one becomes 24,750
and then the 1day minimum 24,600.
I seriously doubt that that's going to
happen. This thin volume pocket tells us
that price action is fairly likely to
run up into these levels in the
overnight. And then we've got flow that
takes us up into the point of control
here at 25,320
with the value area high at 25,500.
To me, I would not be surprised at all
to see price action completely recover
off of this big fade that we had during
the trading day on Wednesday. All right,
let's take a look at Micro Bitcoin.
Whoopsie, that's the wrong one.
[laughter] MT.
Um, let's go to Jan. Are we in January?
Looks like Jan, but I would say probably
let's just use the one and that gives us
what we're staring down. Okay, still
have negative pressure.
This trend line
is
still saying sell the bounces. Yesterday
I I read something on one of my feeds in
on X and it said this move up that we
saw on Wednesday's trading day and the
following move down in the Bitcoin
futures was $140
billion
of price action reversal.
That's pretty incredible. But notice
this big bounce. either a lot of people
just not afraid to short it and they got
on the back foot and had to push down.
But look at where it pushed down right
at the call wall. Okay, so right now the
put wall and the zero DTE put wall is
down at this 7475,000
area. Right, that's the region we're
looking at. Remember last time we spoke
I talked to you about the carry trade,
how the carry trade is influencing the
liquidity measures in Bitcoin and we see
that happening. But here's something
very interesting that is beginning to
show up in the chart. We've spent one 2
and this would be the fourth trading day
holding this floor as support.
Now, that's a tell in my mind. And this
floor at 85,000 is telling us something
about what the traders are trying to do.
So, as long as we hold this 85,300,
I believe dips are buys. Now, you all
know
that I am bearish this instrument
because I believe it has no utility. But
I'm not going to be bearish and take a
short if it starts running up the rails.
Right? That's just not it's what I
believe about the instrument, not what's
actually happening in the chart. You
just trade what is happening in the
chart. And so if we look at this as old
support, new resistance, we can see that
this breakout above 86,500
is bullish. We're above the VWAP. We
have higher lows.
And so for those of us looking at this,
we must say, "Wait a second. Let me see
if I can pull back and hold my VWAP." If
not, we want to look for the point of
control and the value area low right at
95,900.
That makes a great buy zone. and then
you can take it to the top of the price
action event which 89,000 is the one day
max and then 90,000 gives us this big
pocket of volume right here. So
this looks like they're trying to
bottom, right? So for me, I would not
attempt the short unless I break down
below this 85,300
or I break down at the 88,000 marker or
I break down at the 90,000 marker. I am
not going to do anything crazy in
between. It's too sideways. I mean the
even the dynamic cloud that we have here
is going from red to green to red to
green to red. That tells you you're in a
crosscurren. All right. So be careful.
Watch these gamma lines. The next big
one is gamma level four that we want to
touch. That's 87,000. Notice that looks
a little bit like a topping formation.
But when we've got higher lows building,
it's much more likely to break out and
then fade if that's what it's going to
do. So, you want to be really careful
doing that. Okay, let's take a look at
oil
font contract. Okay, what we're looking
for next is the fade that gives us
another bounce. And so, let's take a
look at the put wall. $55. That's the
big put wall below the value area low
5531 zero DTE call wall at 56. Look at
what happened towards the end of the
day. Absolutely gigantic move and now we
gave it all back but still a higher low.
So this number around 56
is very likely to hold and if it holds
57 is where we go next. the call wall
and
uh the gamma lines for the high value
node and gamma line 5 are all on top of
each other between 5650 and 57. The big
call wall is at 61 now. That's moved up
an entire dollar. So, we really want to
be careful paying attention to shorting
um oil anymore, especially
especially after this move, right? We've
broken the downward trend line. We want
to hold it in this area and then we can
move to the upside.
All right.
People short the calls are on the back
foot. So, if they cannot get below this
56, they're going to turn around and buy
the instrument and it could be another
savage move to the upside that like the
one we saw in yesterday's trading event.
All right, let's take a look at gold.
Gold's pretty sideways. Um,
I listen, I did not think gold was going
to get up over here. I really did not. I
really felt like it was going to fade.
However, price action is telling me
certainly that there is further upside
motion for this chart in the near term.
Particularly if we take a look at the
higher lows. Now, right now in the
overnight, we've been sitting really
sideways.
Asia markets are now closed. The next
thing we're waiting for is European
markets to open. and we're sitting in
this box. So, the trading range for
[snorts] gold at this particular time,
the low edge, look at us, look at it
breaking down through here. That's very
interesting. That's also where the zero
DT put wall is, but they bought it at
4355.
So, here we are watching the retest of
Here are the kinds of things that can
happen. This is fantastic. This is
happening real time for us. So, here's
the interesting bit.
Let's say the traders are thinking to
themselves, absolutely, I'm taking a
short here. Two ways you can do that.
You can do a sell stop, which says, hey,
I'm going to sell this as soon as it
hits below the low of my last box. Or
you can say, hey, I've got a buy limit
at the last buy because I think it's
going to sit in the box. Right? Either
of those is a valid way to trade the
event. If it were something that would
you would be doing, you would see that
the long would have opened up and you'd
be long up into where?
Above the zero DTE put wall. And that
ZDT put wall is 4360.
Let's say it can't get up over there.
You should immediately be looking for
price action to hold above that area or
say to yourself, you know what, I got in
at 56. I am going to get out at 60.
Right? If you bought two contracts, you
could buy one. You could buy both of
them right there at that that low and
then take one of them off right at the
first target because there's going to be
a battle here. We don't know if it's
going to be a battle like this when it
moves to the upside or it's going to be
a battle like this which continues to
the downside. My thought is when a chart
has a sideways VWAP like this one does,
right? And it's sitting in the space
like all of this inventory, this is what
you're after. You're after all of this
inventory and saying to yourself, "All
right, I'm going to trade from the
bottom of the ledge to the top, but I
have got to pay attention to what
everybody else is looking at, and that
is where is the put wall? Where is the
anchored VWAP from from the prior day?"
And you can see it got to 61, but now
it's moving back to 60. Great example of
buying something off of a floor when the
momentum is sideways and the VWAP is
sideways. You could also again have that
sell stop below the low of this edge
that says, you know what, if this breaks
down, I've got a formation that will
give me 55
to 69. That's 14 points. That's 140
ticks at $10 a tick. That's a lot of
cash if it loses the edge and begins to
work its way down into the lower edges.
So, that looks great. You know, do I
think it ought to rotate down? I do.
But, you know, I I also thought it would
not rotate up, and I want to be clear
about that. So,
we just have to look at what's happening
overall. still making higher lows, but
this formation looks to me like either
it's going to sit sideways for a hot
minute or it's going to break down. I do
not see it breaking out. That being
said, the call wall above 4415,
the 1day max 4,440.
The put wall is where they're fighting
right now for the zero DTE. That's
4,360.
The 1-day min is very close by at 4330
and then value area low 4296. Pretty
sideways. I would not be surprised if we
really hit the high or the low edges of
these numbers that I've spoken about by
Friday because Friday is going to be
kind of big. All right, lastly, let's
take a look at SPY.
Wow. Let's go to a 4 hour here.
Okay, so obviously this is a break,
right? We obviously have have a trend
line break. We've got momentum taking us
all the way down into the pockets near
672. That's where the big pull wall is.
This is my suspicion about why we bounce
off of this level. We got a major put
wall at uh 670. We've got the zero DTE
put wall at 672.
I would imagine it holds. One day
minimum is 665. Could we go there? You
know, potentially, but I I doubt it.
I really do. I I doubt it. I I suspect
that we're going to have a reflexive
bounce. That being said, where do you
want to short this if it loses 670
and tries to bounce? So you want to look
for one high volume that comes in around
670 and price does not move up. If that
happens, you know, price is very likely
to move down and then we would move into
the 1day minimum which is 665.
All right, there's been a lot of volume
being pushed around here. A lot of
traders sitting in these spaces. We take
a look at the 30-inut chart. We can see
that they spent a ton of time
accumulating inventory
between 67120
and
673, which is also gamma level 2. All
right. If we break there, then we've got
ourselves a measured move
that will take us back
to the top of value area low. Okay,
which I like as a measured move. Now,
[snorts] we could get a lot of
acceleration if people are on the wrong
if too many people are on the wrong side
of the boat, right? And so that space I
would like to draw the channel and have
you take a look at
this. Let's do this.
If we have this channel and we move it
up here,
right?
We broke down below the channel, but
moving up into the base above 675.
Easily we could move to 678 and then 680
where we've got the secondary line of
zero DTE options at that 680 event. So,
so far it looks like dips are going to
be buys. This is in a reflexive zone.
So, that is my thought. Just watch the
floor because if the floor gets broken
through, all bets are off for upside
pressure. And so just keep an eye on
that. All right, everyone. Take care.